---
layout:         post
title:          "About Keeping a Diary"
#date:          XXXX-XX-XX XX:XX:XX
categories:     Blogging Diary Thoughts
published:      false
sitemap:
  lastmod:      XXXX-XX-XX
  priority:     0.7
  changefreq:   'monthly'
  exclude:      'yes'
---

Unlike the most guys out there, diaries and I have some history together. I started writing my first diary when I was about 13 years old but it didn't worked out very long. At some point I couldn't find the motivation anymore to write down what happened that day before I went to sleep. After some weeks of frustration every time I saw the book on my nightstand I finally stored it away and never looked at it again.

Several years later during my time as a soldier, blogging boomed and I was caught by this phenomenon of so many people sharing their thoughts with the world for free. I had a lot of spare time back then and there was a lot going on that I could talk about so I started my own blog at Blogger. I was able to write some entries of varying length and quality and it was mostly about what happened in my life. The language was german so I bet that not a lot of people apart from my family members and nearest friends ever read something of what I wrote. However, writing helped me getting my thoughts together and sorting out what really mattered at that time. Sometimes I even deleted individual posts after publishing them because there was too much private content in them.

Time went on and somehow I ended up studying computer science. At that time my spare time decreased significantly compared to when I was a soldier and so the motivation to write entries shrunk as well. There was so much going on in my life that I just couldn't concentrate on writing it down for later reference and entertainment. When I finally went on to become Facebook addicted, the blog finally died. Facebook gave me the feeling that I already kept track of the important things in life and that feeling isn't completely wrong. Looking back at it now, there is a lot that my status updates tell me about my time as a student but there is also a ton that isn't explicitly said. I remember most of it now, but that memory might be gone in a couple of years and the picture I left there between status updates, likes and friend requests will most likely not be the same that I have now.

When the iPhone 4 came out, I got my first app-capable smartphone and one of the apps I discovered was Momento. In short: It's like Facebook or Twitter but instead of sharing with the world, you just share with your later self. The idea behind this is that you might not have the time or the motivation to sit down every day and write a long and detailed journal entry but you always have the time to post pictures and one-liners on social media platforms so you can as well record these moments for yourself. I really liked that approach and I liked using my phone as much as possible so I gave it a try. At first, everything went as intended by the concept of Momento but over time the "moments" I recorded grew bigger and bigger. In addition to size, the focus of the posts went from "We just came home from the movies, Iron Man rocks!" to "I learned about Framework X today and I really need to build that great new software with it". It became more of a messy collection of ideas and things I learned than a series of snapshots of my life. My last post in Momento is about 7 or 8 iPhone screens long and I never completed it. It dealt with learning Scala and about how I wanted to build a migration tool from bitbucket to github with it. I simply outgrew the concept of the app and looked for a new way to express my thoughts and ideas about technology.

Tumblr seemed to be a perfect fit for my blogging renaissance so I created an account, linked it to my custom domain and selected a theme from the free gallery. This time I really wanted to stay focused on technical topics and tutorials. Not long before that happened, I started using Cocoa and Cocoa Touch to create applications for the iOS platform so this topic made a perfect match for my first articles. So I wrote my first small article giving an example how to use the Adressbook API in iOS during a class. A few quotations later I published another article about NSPredicates. Everything was fun until I started to think that my articles lacked quality and substance. I needed to do something about that and soon afterwards released a small iOS project showing how to use UITableViewCells to create "comboboxes". A lot of work went into this small project and I really liked the outcome. I am still receiving good feedback on the project until now and about a week ago I resolved an issue I didn't intend to resolve when I created the example in the first place because it was requested by a user.

The problem was: The combobox example now was the minimum that I would go public with. There was no way I could imagine publishing another "This is how you run tasks in the background" snippet. And there it stopped again. It wasn't completely my fault because at the same time I was working on my bachelor thesis and some other projects which required more attention but I wasn't able to pick it up where I left of.

We're soon coming to the end of the journey now. Promised.

My first job was unclear about whether or not I was allowed to talk about how to solve programming tasks in iOS as exactly this was the kind of thing the company (and I) got payed for. When I finally got kind of an official statement that I was allowed to do so (under certain conditions of course), I didn't want to continue the orphaned tumbler blog. I was also curious about learning jekyll and wanted to use github pages. So I spend some time on coming up with a design that couldn't excite me for very long. I went through a vast number of iterations finally deciding to go with a minimal approach but it was once again a prove that I am not "design ninja" material.

In the same time, I again started to write a personal journal for my inner thoughts because I felt once again that I needed to write things down at the end of each day to sort things out a little better. This time, I used a *real* journaling app called "Day One" which I really enjoyed using.

Eventually I managed to publish an introductory article on my new github hosted blog by the end of last year which never received a follow-up post. Crazy things were happening at the beginning of this year. I started looking for a new job in a new city, had a few interviews and a new job offer for may by the end of january. Then my girlfriend and I started managing and preparing for the move and I never took the time to write about it. Ironically, I thought about writing every day because there was so much going on that seemed worth sharing. But I never did. Also, just before we actually moved, the last entry in my personal journal was about how I planned to write every single evening during the move to keep track of everything and when these words left my fingers, they were serious.

I never wrote a single entry since then. There was too much going on.

So here we are again. This is me writing an article that is going to be published on a new platform. There is a ton of ideas in my head that I plan to write about but only time will tell how long this is going to last and if this is the first and the last article .. again.

Sometimes when I read blogs and articles on the internet I ask myself how all these great people find the time to have a fulfilling job, a bunch of cool side projects, some great hobbies, a relationship (and sometimes even kids) plus the extra time to produce high quality content for the written media. And of course, there are a ton of answers to this question out there by exactly these people in some kind of *meta-blogging* or *meta-productivity* format that aren't helpful at all. In the end it seems to me that simply adapting what they found for themselves isn't going to work for other individuals.

Anyways, there is a point where all these advices meet: **Keep shipping**. When I learned one thing from my journey in writing so far, it is that every day that I don't write makes it harder for me to continue. At some point it gets so surreal to pick up where I left of that I feel the need to start over again. So I will try not to stop this time and leave my perfectionism take care of the code I write, not on the prose.

Using words to sketch ideas and code to write poetry. Maybe this is going to work out.
